# Life-Expectancy-Prediction_World-Health-Organization

This problem statement is aimed at Predicting the Life Expectancy rate of a country given various features. Life expectancy is a statistical measure of the average time a human being is expected to live, Life expectancy depends on various factors: Regional variations, Economic Circumstances, Sex Differences, Mental Illnesses, Physical Illnesses, Education, Year of their birth and other demographic factors. This problem statement provides a way to predict average life expectancy of people living in a country when various factors such as year, GDP, education, alcohol intake of people in the country, expenditure on healthcare system and some specific disease related deaths that happened in the country are given.

## Dataset Information
The Global Health Observatory (GHO) data repository under World Health Organization (WHO) keeps track of the health status as well as many other related factors for all countries The data-sets are made available to public for the purpose of health data analysis. The data-set related to life expectancy, health factors for 193 countries has been collected from the same WHO data repository website and its corresponding economic data was collected from United Nation website. Among all categories of health-related factors only those critical factors were chosen which are more representative. It has been observed that in the past 15 years , there has been a huge development in health sector resulting in improvement of human mortality rates especially in the developing nations in comparison to the past 30 years.

Therefore, in this project we have considered data from year 2000-2015 for 193 countries for further analysis.On initial visual inspection of the data showed some missing values. As the data-sets were from WHO, we found no evident errors. Missing data was handled in R software by using Missmap command. The result indicated that most of the missing data was for population, Hepatitis B and GDP. The missing data were from less known countries like Vanuatu, Tonga, Togo, Cabo Verde etc. The final merged file(final dataset) consists of 22 Columns and 2938 rows which meant 20 predicting variables. All predicting variables was then divided into several broad categories: Immunization related factors, Mortality factors, Economical factors and Social factors.
